<div>

::: {md-component="content"}
# Write JavaScript tests[¶](#write-javascript-tests "Permanent link")

Truffle uses the [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) testing framework and
[Chai](https://chaijs.com/) for assertions to provide you with a solid
framework from which to write your JavaScript tests. Let\'s dive in and
see how Truffle builds on top of Mocha to make testing your contracts a
breeze.

Note: If you\'re unfamiliar with writing unit tests in Mocha, please see
[Mocha\'s documentation](https://mochajs.org/) before continuing.

## Use contract() instead of describe()[¶](#use-contract-instead-of-describe "Permanent link")

Structurally, your tests should remain largely unchanged from that of
Mocha: Your tests should exist in the `./test` directory, they should
end with a `.js` extension, and they should contain code that Mocha will
recognize as an automated test. What makes Truffle tests different from
that of Mocha is the `contract()` function: This function works exactly
like `describe()` except it enables Truffle\'s [clean-room
features](/docs/truffle/testing/testing-your-contracts#clean-room-environment).
It works like this:

-   Before each `contract()` function is run, your contracts are
    redeployed to the running Ethereum client so the tests within it run
    with a clean contract state.
-   The `contract()` function provides a list of accounts made available
    by your Ethereum client which you can use to write tests.

Since Truffle uses Mocha under the hood, you can still use `describe()`
to run normal Mocha tests whenever Truffle clean-room features are
unnecessary.

## Use contract abstractions within your tests[¶](#use-contract-abstractions-within-your-tests "Permanent link")

Contract abstractions are the basis for making contract interaction
possible from JavaScript (they\'re basically our [flux
capacitor](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EhU862ONFys)). Because
Truffle has no way of detecting which contracts you\'ll need to interact
with within your tests, you\'ll need to ask for those contracts
explicitly. You do this by using the `artifacts.require()` method, a
method provided by Truffle that allows you to request a usable contract
abstraction for a specific Solidity contract. As you\'ll see in the
example below, you can then use this abstraction to make sure your
contracts are working properly.

For more information on using contract abstractions, see the
[Interacting With Your
Contracts](/docs/truffle/getting-started/interacting-with-your-contracts)
section.

## Using artifacts.require()[¶](#using-artifactsrequire "Permanent link") {#using-artifactsrequire}

Using `artifacts.require()` within your tests works the same way as
using it within your migrations; you just need to pass the name of the
contract. See the [artifacts.require()
documentation](/docs/truffle/getting-started/running-migrations#artifactsrequire)
in the Migrations section for detailed usage.

## Using web3[¶](#using-web3 "Permanent link")

A `web3` instance is available in each test file, configured to the
correct provider. So calling `web3.eth.getBalance` just works!

## Examples[¶](#examples "Permanent link")

Here\'s an example test provided in the [MetaCoin Truffle
Box](/boxes/metacoin) using
[async/await](https://javascript.info/async-await) notation. Note the
use of the `contract()` function, the `accounts` array for specifying
available Ethereum accounts, and our use of `artifacts.require()` for
interacting directly with our contracts.

File: `./test/metacoin.js`

<div>

    const MetaCoin = artifacts.require("MetaCoin");

    contract("MetaCoin", (accounts) => {
      it("should put 10000 MetaCoin in the first account", async () => {
        const metaCoinInstance = await MetaCoin.deployed();
        const balance = await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accounts[0]);

        assert.equal(balance.valueOf(), 10000, "10000 wasn't in the first account");
      });
      it("should call a function that depends on a linked library", async () => {
        const metaCoinInstance = await MetaCoin.deployed();
        const metaCoinBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accounts[0])
        ).toNumber();
        const metaCoinEthBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalanceInEth.call(accounts[0])
        ).toNumber();

        assert.equal(
          metaCoinEthBalance,
          2 * metaCoinBalance,
          "Library function returned unexpected function, linkage may be broken"
        );
      });
      it("should send coin correctly", async () => {
        const metaCoinInstance = await MetaCoin.deployed();

        // Setup 2 accounts.
        const accountOne = accounts[0];
        const accountTwo = accounts[1];

        // Get initial balances of first and second account.
        const accountOneStartingBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accountOne)
        ).toNumber();
        const accountTwoStartingBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accountTwo)
        ).toNumber();

        // Make transaction from first account to second.
        const amount = 10;
        await metaCoinInstance.sendCoin(accountTwo, amount, { from: accountOne });

        // Get balances of first and second account after the transactions.
        const accountOneEndingBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accountOne)
        ).toNumber();
        const accountTwoEndingBalance = (
          await metaCoinInstance.getBalance.call(accountTwo)
        ).toNumber();

        assert.equal(
          accountOneEndingBalance,
          accountOneStartingBalance - amount,
          "Amount wasn't correctly taken from the sender"
        );
        assert.equal(
          accountTwoEndingBalance,
          accountTwoStartingBalance + amount,
          "Amount wasn't correctly sent to the receiver"
        );
      });
    });

</div>

This test will produce the following output:

<div>

      Contract: MetaCoin
        √ should put 10000 MetaCoin in the first account (83ms)
        √ should call a function that depends on a linked library (43ms)
        √ should send coin correctly (122ms)


      3 passing (293ms)

</div>

## Specifying tests[¶](#specifying-tests "Permanent link")

You can limit the tests being executed to a specific file as follows:

<div>

    truffle test ./test/metacoin.js

</div>

See the full [command
reference](/docs/truffle/reference/truffle-commands#test) for more
information.

## Advanced[¶](#advanced "Permanent link")

Truffle gives you access to Mocha\'s configuration so you can change how
Mocha behaves. See the [project
configuration](/docs/truffle/reference/configuration#mocha) section for
more details.

Check out our documentation on [interacting with your
contracts](https://trufflesuite.com/docs/truffle/getting-started/interacting-with-your-contracts/)
for more tips, tricks and best practices.

## TypeScript File Support[¶](#typescript-file-support "Permanent link")

Truffle supports tests saved as a `.ts`
[TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) file. Please see the
[Writing Tests in JavaScript](#writing-tests-in-javascript) guide for
more information.
:::

</div>
