<div>

::: {md-component="content"}
# Use Truffle Dashboard[¶](#use-truffle-dashboard "Permanent link")

When deploying your smart contracts you need to specify an Ethereum
account that has enough funds to cover the transaction fees of the
deployment. A popular method of doing this is copy-pasting your mnemonic
phrase to a gitignored `.env` file so that it can be used for, e.g., the
`@truffle/hdwallet-provider`. However, it is generally a bad practice to
copy-paste your keys, especially since we have wallets like MetaMask
that can send transactions for us.

We developed the Truffle Dashboard to provide an easy way to use your
existing MetaMask wallet for your deployments and for other transactions
that you need to send from a command line context. Because the Truffle
Dashboard connects directly to MetaMask it is also possible to use it in
combination with hardware wallets like Ledger or Trezor.

## Starting a dashboard[¶](#starting-a-dashboard "Permanent link")

To start a Truffle Dashboard, you need to run the `truffle dashboard`
command in a separate terminal window.

<div>

    > truffle dashboard [--port <number>] [--host <string>] [--verbose]

    Truffle Dashboard running at http://localhost:24012
    DashboardProvider RPC endpoint running at http://localhost:24012/rpc

</div>

By default, the command above starts a dashboard at
`http://localhost:24012` and opens the dashboard in a new tab in your
default browser. The Dashboard then prompts you to connect your wallet
and confirm that you\'re connected to the right network. **You should
double check your connected network at this point, since switching to a
different network during a deployment can have unintended
consequences.**

![Connect your wallet to the Truffle
Dashboard](/img/docs/truffle/using-the-truffle-dashboard/truffle-dashboard-connect.png)

![Confirm your connected
network](/img/docs/truffle/using-the-truffle-dashboard/truffle-dashboard-confirm.png)

The port and host can be configured through command line options, or by
configuring them inside your `truffle-config.js`.

<div>

    module.exports = {
      // ... rest of truffle config

      dashboard: {
        port: 24012,
      }

      networks: {
        // ... network configurations, including the network named 'dashboard'
      }
    }

</div>

## Connecting to the dashboard[¶](#connecting-to-the-dashboard "Permanent link")

To make connecting to the Truffle Dashboard easy, Truffle includes a
built in network named \"dashboard\". This built in network
automatically uses the port and host specified in the dashboard
configuration or falls back to the default `http://localhost:24012`.
This built in network can be used with all your deployments or scripts.

<div>

    truffle migrate --network dashboard
    truffle console --network dashboard

</div>

From there, every Ethereum RPC request will be forwarded from Truffle to
the Truffle Dashboard, where the user can inspect the RPC requests and
process them with MetaMask.

![Truffle Dashboard
Transaction](/img/docs/truffle/using-the-truffle-dashboard/truffle-dashboard-transaction.png)

Any additional network options or overrides can be provided by adding a
network called \"dashboard\" to your `truffle-config.js` file and
providing network options like you would a regular network.

<div>

    module.exports = {
      // ... rest of truffle config

      networks: {
        // ... rest of network config

        dashboard: {
          networkCheckTimeout: 120000,
        }
      }

      dashboard: {
        // ... dashboard host/port config
      }
    };

</div>

## Decode requests[¶](#decode-requests "Permanent link")

Truffle Dashboard supports decoding requests for certain RPC calls,
allowing you to view a more human-friendly representation of the
messaging between your computer and the Ethereum network.

**Information**: The decode functionality is available in Truffle
projects for the following methods: `eth_sendTransaction`,
`personal_sign`, `eth_signTypedData_v3`, and `eth_signTypedData_v4`. We
plan to support non-Truffle tooling such as Hardhat in the future.

Each time you run `truffle compile`, Truffle shares information about
your contracts with Truffle Dashboard. Later, when you call a method,
Truffle Dashboard consults its repository of this compilation
information, and asks `@truffle/decoder` to translate the request into a
human readable format.

For example, if you have a contract that allows you to mint 5 tokens and
send it to a user (`myaccount.eth` in this example), the low-level form
would look something like:

<div>

    0xa0e9439c000000000000000000000000627306090abab3a6e1400e9345bc60c78a8bef570000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000005

</div>

Truffle Dashboard can display this in a more human-readable format, for
example:

<div>

    mint(myaccount.eth, 5)

</div>

## Usage with non-Truffle tooling[¶](#usage-with-non-truffle-tooling "Permanent link")

To make the Truffle Dashboard accessible to everyone, we developed it to
be agnostic about the tools you\'re using. You can use the Truffle
Dashboard with non-Truffle tools such as Hardhat.

**Information**: Truffle Dashboard cannot decode requests when using
tools other than Truffle or Hardhat (with the plugin outlined below). We
plan to add support for additional tools in the future.

### Using Truffle Dashboard with the Hardhat plugin[¶](#using-truffle-dashboard-with-the-hardhat-plugin "Permanent link")

The plugin brings the complete Truffle Dashboard experience, including
decoded transaction information, to your Hardhat projects. See the
[Installation](https://github.com/trufflesuite/truffle/tree/develop/packages/dashboard-hardhat-plugin#installation)
steps to get it setup for your project. The Hardhat plugin extends
`npx hardhat compile` by sending the compiled artifacts to Truffle
Dashboard, enabling seamless integration with your existing workflow.

When using the Truffle Dashboard with Hardhat, you need to create a
network configuration inside your `hardhat.config.js` file that
specifies the Truffle Dashboard\'s RPC URL.

<div>

    module.exports = {
      // ... rest of hardhat config

      networks: {
        // ... rest of network config

        'truffle-dashboard': {
          url: "http://localhost:24012/rpc"
        }
      },
    };

</div>

From there, it can be used with any Hardhat task or tools like
[hardhat-deploy](https://github.com/wighawag/hardhat-deploy).

<div>

    hardhat deploy --network truffle-dashboard

</div>
:::

</div>
