<div>

::: {md-component="content"}
# Compile contracts[¶](#compile-contracts "Permanent link")

## Location[¶](#location "Permanent link")

All of your contracts are located in your project\'s `contracts/`
directory. As contracts are written in
[Solidity](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/), all files
containing contracts will have a file extension of `.sol`. Associated
Solidity
[libraries](https://solidity.readthedocs.org/en/latest/contracts.html#libraries)
will also have a `.sol` extension.

## Command[¶](#command "Permanent link")

To compile a Truffle project, change to the root of the directory where
the project is located and then type the following into a terminal:

<div>

``` {#__code_1}
truffle compile
```

</div>

Upon first run, all contracts will be compiled. Upon subsequent runs,
Truffle will compile only the contracts that have been changed since the
last compile. If you\'d like to override this behavior, run the above
command with the `--all` option.

## Build artifacts[¶](#build-artifacts "Permanent link")

Artifacts of your compilation will be placed in the `build/contracts/`
directory, relative to your project root. (This directory will be
created if it does not exist.) The name of the generated artifact
`.json` files do **not reflect** the name of the **source file** but the
**name of the contract definition**. This means that changing the
contract name string in the `artifacts.require` method to match that of
the source file may lead to a
`Error: Could not find artifacts for {yourContract} from any sources` if
the contained smart contract definition is named differently.

These artifacts are integral to the inner workings of Truffle, and they
play an important part in the successful deployment of your application.
**You should not edit these files** as they\'ll be overwritten by
contract compilation and deployment.

## Dependencies[¶](#dependencies "Permanent link")

You can declare contract dependencies using Solidity\'s
[import](https://solidity.readthedocs.org/en/latest/layout-of-source-files.html#importing-other-source-files)
command. Truffle will compile contracts in the correct order and ensure
all dependencies are sent to the compiler. Dependencies can be specified
in two ways:

### Importing dependencies via file name[¶](#importing-dependencies-via-file-name "Permanent link")

To import contracts from a separate file, add the following code to your
Solidity source file:

<div>

    import "./AnotherContract.sol";

</div>

This will make all contracts within `AnotherContract.sol` available.
Here, `AnotherContract.sol` is relative to the path of the current
contract being written.

Note that Solidity allows other import syntaxes as well. See the
Solidity [import
documentation](https://solidity.readthedocs.org/en/latest/layout-of-source-files.html#importing-other-source-files)
for more information.

### Importing contracts from an external package[¶](#importing-contracts-from-an-external-package "Permanent link")

Truffle supports dependencies installed via
[NPM](/docs/truffle/getting-started/package-management-via-npm). To
import contracts from a dependency, use the following syntax

<div>

    import "somepackage/SomeContract.sol";

</div>

Here, `somepackage` represents a package installed via NPM, and
`SomeContract.sol` represents a Solidity source file provided by that
package.

For more information on how to use Truffle\'s package management
features, please see the Truffle
[NPM](/docs/truffle/getting-started/package-management-via-npm)
documentation.
:::

</div>
